# SpecsFrameSelector
People often wears specs, people often purchase specs. Processes of purchasing start by   going to shop and selecting appropriate frame of specs by trying one by one. To try buyer   pics a frame from the set of chosen frame and looks into the mirror and this process   repeated until buyer satisfied. But the world where shops are confined to the computer   screen and shopping take place at just one click. In this modern circumstances trying   before buying is not as simple as it is in real world.

The problem of trying before buying can also be solved in this modern digital world by using third party plugins like flash and Silverlight. As in every system there are numerous advantages so few lacuna too exist. System built in Flash required special knowledge of scripting and modification is also not easy but due to lack of portability this system is not adopted and systems remains static. In existing system users are allowed to upload a pictures and manually drag frame to eyes of uploaded picture or they can look the desired frame on some demo images of models taken at different angles during advertising spec. This is because the limitations of the web so far but now lots of research has been done in the field of making web responsive leads to emergence of technology that can detect face, Track the movement of any objects without any third party plugins.

Proposed system developed in JavaScript can solve the problem of trying before buying. This is the simple system uses webcam some JavaScript libraries and newly introduced canvas in HTML5 to solve the problem. In this system webcam gives Input to the system and system calls the JavaScript libraries that detects the face and track the movement of face and then proposed algorithm puts selected frame and fix into the eyes of detected face and move the frame with respect to the movement of the face.

The proposed system is implemented in JavaScript is able solve the problem of trying before buying. System detects face, tracks movement of the face and adjust frame according to the movement of face accurately. Accuracy of system varies from 75% to 95%. If lighting conditions are proper, webcam is of good quality and background is not complex system provides maximum quality.
